## 2024-06-06

I was following the OpenXR tutorial and reached the point where I finally had to implement the OpenGL stuff. To create an OpenXR session, I need to populate and pass a XrSessionCreateInfo struct. Inside this struct, there's a required field (`next`) that expects an instance of a `XrGraphicsBindingX` struct, where `X` is the platform. I found the specific struct that refers to the Windows + OpenGL platform (`XrGraphicsBindingOpenGLWin32KHR`). This however means that the code is going to be much less portable, as specific code is required for each platform. To initialize the binding struct on Windows + OpenGL, it is necessary to have Windows-specific handles for the device context (`HDC`) and the OpenGL rendering context (`HGLRC`). The same story goes for Linux + X11 and Linux + Wayland. Since only Windows + OpenGL is required for this project, that's what I'll focus on. Maybe in the future, if time allows, I'll also add support for Linux.

The FreeGLUT library, which was used in the computer graphics course, does not allow the user to get the device context handle and the OpenGL rendering context since this would break portability. The alternatives are to either use WGL (the native Windows OpenGL stuff), or GLFW (a multi-platform OpenGL library similar to FreeGLUT). Considering the requirements of the computer graphics course, I suggest switching to GLFW.

Here's the guide to creating a GLFW window and configuring the OpenGL context: [Getting started](https://www.glfw.org/docs/latest/quick.html).

GLFW also has a section of documentation that explains platform-specific API (do note that using these functions will make the code less portable): [Native access](https://www.glfw.org/docs/3.3/group__native.html).
