## 2024-06-15

In OpenVR, it's up to the user to create framebuffers, render to them and submit them to OpenVR to display on the headset. In OpenXR, however, it's the runtime that generates the framebuffers (actually, the runtime only generates the image attachments, it's up to the user to attach them to a frame buffer object). When creating the framebuffers, OpenXR also considers the resolution of the VR display, its aspect ratio and the FOV.

Due to this difference, I need to figure out what's the best way to implement my wrapper. I want to keep the API as simple as possible, so that the users do not struggle too much trying to learn it (the VR course is on how virtual reality works as a whole, not to learn how to use my wrapper after all). But I also do not want to stray too much from the teacher's design, as that would cause the need to change the course material too much.

The following are some proposals of how the user should interact with the wrapper when dealing with rendering.

### Variant #1

The wrapper creates the FBOs and keeps them to itself. As such, the user never interacts with FBOs.

Example code (user):
```C++
// Bind the FBO and set the viewport.
wrapper->use_left_eye();

// Return the projection matrix for the left eye. This is a perspective matrix and includes the aspect ratio and FOV.
glm::mat4 projection_matrix = wrapper->get_left_eye_projection_matrix();

/* Render */

// Repeat the above code for the right eye.
```

### Variant #2

The wrapper creates the FBOs and keeps them to itself. The user creates his own framebuffers, renders to them and submits them to the wrapper. The wrapper then copies the user-submitted framebuffers to its internal framebuffers. From the point of view

Problems: this does not consider the resolution, aspect ratio and the FOV of the headset. The user could query the wrapper for that information. However, OpenXR has a mechanism that allows a VR headset to change resolution during runtime, meaning that the user would have to constantly query the information and re-create the framebuffers (it is unlikely that the information changes during runtime; I haven't found a way to cause it to change during testing).

Flow:
```
1. [User] User creates FBO.
2. [User] User renders to FBO.
3. [User] User submits FBO to wrapper.
4. [Wrapper] Wrapper copies the user-submitted FBO to its own internal FBO.
5. [Wrapper] Wrapper submits its internal FBO to OpenXR.
```
