## 2024-07-27

After discussing with the teacher we came up with an idea on how to retrieve the necessary parameters `visualid` and `glxFBConfig`: modify and recompile FreeGLUT by adding a way to dump these parameters to a file and then reading from the same file from inside XrBridge.

Let's start with `visualid` (I am not entirely sure what this parameter is). Fortunately this parameter is a simple `uint32_t`. I managed to modify FreeGLUT and make it print the parameter's value to stdout. No matter how many times I restarted the program, this value remained the same (`735`). I have then hard-coded this value inside XrBridge. This is likely a coincidence and this implementation is obviously a temporary solution.

The second parameter is `glxFBConfig`. According to documentation, this is an internal structure that is not meant to be accessed by the user and therefore is not described in the documentation. Due to this, I cannot dump its value and load it into XrBridge. It is however possible to generate this value from a series of initial parameters called attributes (double-buffering, color channel sizes, etc.). The function `glXChooseFBConfig` accepts some parameters - which include the attributes - and generates an FBConfig. At the moment I have hard-coded the attributes to be identical to what FreeGLUT used.

These hard-coded values allowed me to correctly start the application on Linux.

There are different approaches to implement a way to pass these parameters from FreeGLUT to XrBridge:
	* Make these values global inside FreeGLUT so that they can be accessed from XrBridge.
	* Dump these values to a file and read that file inside XrBridge.
	* Make use of shared memory.

### Compiling FreeGLUT

As a first step I downloaded the source code for FreeGLUT 3.6.0 from the [official repository](https://github.com/freeglut/freeglut).

I then executed the following commands from inside the root of the repository:
	1. `$ mkdir build/ && cd build/`: Create the build directory.
	2. `$ cmake ..`: Prepare the repository for compilation.
	3. `$ cmake --build .`: Compile FreeGLUT.

I repeat steps *2* and *3* after each change to FreeGLUT. I also have to recompile the Test application for it to pull in the new changes.

The generated static library binary is located in `build/lib/` while the includes are in `include/`. The generated library is a drop-in replacement to the official FreeGLUT releases.

### Modifying FreeGLUT

The `visualid` parameter is defined inside the `fgPlatformOpenWindow` function of the `src/x11/fg_window_x11.c` source file of FreeGLUT. This parameter is part of the struct `visualInfo` of type `XVisualInfo`. For the moment I simply print this parameter to stdout using `printf` before the call to `XFree(visualInfo);`.

The `glxFBConfig` parameter is generated inside the `fghChooseConfig` function of the `src/x11/fg_window_x11_glx.c` source file of FreeGLUT. As explained before, this parameter cannot be dumped as it is and instead needs to be generated from a series of attributes. To do this, I simply printed the contents of the `attributes` array to stdout.

I will, in the future, generate a patch that applies these changes to FreeGLUT.
