## 2024-07-20

It is now time to make XrBridge work under Linux. OpenXR supports three different approaches to Linux: two involve X11 and one involves Wayland.

OpenXR relies on "*graphics bindings*", which are structs that tie together combinations of platform-specific handles (Windows, Linux, ...) and graphics API-specific handles (OpenGL, Vulkan, ...).

### Windows + OpenGL

The graphics binding for Windows and OpenGL is represented by the struct `XrGraphicsBindingOpenGLWin32KHR`. This struct contains 2 members that we need to configure (technically 4, but the first two are irrelevant for the current discussion): `hDC` and `hGLRC`.

A problem that appears immediately is the fact that `hDC` and `hGLRC` are parameters that are configured by FreeGLUT internally and are not exposed by the library. Fortunately, the Win32 API offers two functions to retrieve these parameters from thin air: `wglGetCurrentDC` and `wglGetCurrentContext`. This pretty much concludes the Windows side of things.

### Linux + OpenGL

On Linux the situation becomes more complicated. First of all, OpenXR supports 3 different approaches: two for X11 and one for Wayland. Let's take a look at the Wayland approach first.

I initially meant to use the Wayland approach for a few reasons: most modern Linux distributions already use Wayland and the graphics binding for Wayland only requires one parameter: `wl_display* display`. The problem with this approach is that FreeGLUT does not support Wayland but instead it uses X11 and runs under Wayland thanks to XWayland. [According to the FreeGLUT developers](https://github.com/freeglut/freeglut/issues/164#issuecomment-2091892089), the Wayland implementation for FreeGLUT is broken and not maintained.

In the end I decided to use the X11 approach by using Xlib (note: X11 application can still run under Wayland thanks to XWayland). At this point the big problem to solve is how to retrieve the necessary parameters for this graphics binding.

The following is the struct necessary for the Xlib + OpenGL binding:

```C++
typedef struct XrGraphicsBindingOpenGLXlibKHR {
    XrStructureType             type; // Ignore this parameter
    const void* XR_MAY_ALIAS    next; // Ignore this parameter
    Display*                    xDisplay;
    uint32_t                    visualid;
    GLXFBConfig                 glxFBConfig;
    GLXDrawable                 glxDrawable;
    GLXContext                  glxContext;
} XrGraphicsBindingOpenGLXlibKHR;
```

Obtaining the `xDisplay`, `glxDrawable` and `glxContext` parameters is actually very similar to Windows thanks to the `glXGetCurrentDisplay`, `glXGetCurrentDrawable` and `glXGetCurrentContext` functions respectively.

Both the `visualid` and `glxFBConfig` parameters however, are configured internally by FreeGLUT and not exposed. As such, I need another way to get these parameters.

---

I created a Code::Blocks project for the Test project. I'm using Fedora 40 as a Linux distribution for development and as such the following instructions refer to compiling the project on Fedora. Do remember that this project is simply a demo for XrBridge and it is not necessary if you want to use XrBridge in your own projects.

The following dependencies are necessary to compile the Test project on Fedora 40:
	* `glm-devel` (OpenGL math library)
	* `glew-devel` (OpenGL extension loader)
	* `freeglut-devel` (Window and graphic context)
	* `openxr-devel` (OpenXR duh)
	* `libX11-devel` (For X11 development)
