## 2024-06-09

### Is OpenXR version 1.1 actually needed?

I looked around the OpenXR [release notes](https://github.com/KhronosGroup/OpenXR-Docs/releases) trying to find out what changed between version 1.0 and 1.1 and if there was any new functionality that could be useful for the project. After looking at the release notes, I found the following main changes that happened in version 1.1:

* Some extensions in version 1.0 have been integrated in OpenXR 1.1 Core, meaning that they have become part of the standard.
* There has been improvement, fixing and clarifications to the documentation.
* Two defines have been added: `XR_API_VERSION_1_0` and `XR_API_VERSION_1_1`. They are useful when specifying the version of OpenXR that is desired in an application. They specify the major and minor version while passing through the patch.

### Terminology

While following the official tutorial and reading the documentation, I've come across some new terminology:

* **Swapchain**: A swapchain is a collection of frame buffers. For example, double buffering is done by having a swapchain that contains two frame buffers. SteamVR appears to be using triple buffering. In the case of a head-mounted display, each eye has its own swapchain.

* **Image** / **View**: These are the single frame buffers inside a swapchain. Contrary to OpenVR, where it's the application that has to allocate the frame buffers, in OpenXR it appears to be the runtime that allocates the frame buffers. To be more precise, it's still the application that has to allocate the *frame buffer objects (FBOs)*, but it's the OpenXR runtime that allocates the single frame buffers. These frame buffers then have to be tied to an FBO as an attachment. In a swapchain of 3, all three images have to be allocated and tied to 3 different FBOs. An image is represented by the `XrSwapchainImageOpenGLKHR` struct (in the case of OpenGL). The `uint32_t image` field contains the ID of the image.

* **Environment Blend Mode**: There are three blend modes available: *opaque*, *additive* and *alpha blend*. These decide how the virtual environment is displayed to the user. Opaque means that the virtual environment is the only thing visible (we will be using this), while *additive* and *alpha blend* overlay the virtual environment with and image of the real world (like augmented reality). The `XrEnvironmentBlendMode` enum describes the available modes.

* **Space**: A space is a frame of reference. [Here's the explaination](https://openxr-tutorial.com//android/vulkan/3-graphics.html#reference-spaces). The following are the main spaces:
	* **View**: The view space has the user as the origin (could be the headset, the user's head or similar). This is used to render UIs. It uses the same coordinate system as OpenGL. [Reference image](https://openxr-tutorial.com//android/vulkan/_images/ViewSpace.png).
	* **Local**: The local space has a specific point of origin defined by the runtime. This is used when tracking the head of the user and is gravity-locked (it is aligned with the real-world ground). [Reference image](https://openxr-tutorial.com//android/vulkan/_images/LocalSpace.png).
	* **Stage**: The stage space is the world's origin when the VR environment offers full tracking. This is used when the user can walk around freely and is aligned with the actual floor. [Reference image](https://openxr-tutorial.com//android/vulkan/_images/StageSpace.png).

* **Pose**: A pose is an instantaneous position and orientation in time of a space.
