## 2024-06-18

I have finished implementing all the code to render solid colors the the VR headset. However, for the last couple of days, I was experiencing an issue where the function `xrEndFrame`, used to submit the rendered framebuffers to OpenXR, returned with the error `XR_ERROR_CALL_ORDER_INVALID` (-37). According to the [OpenXR reference](https://registry.khronos.org/OpenXR/specs/1.1/man/html/xrEndFrame.html): *Every call to xrEndFrame must be preceded by a successful call to xrBeginFrame. Failure to do so must result in `XR_ERROR_CALL_ORDER_INVALID` being returned by `xrEndFrame`*. In my case, `xrBeginFrame` was correctly called and completed successfully, which was confusing. I verified that the issue was with my program and not the runtime by running the [example code](https://github.com/KhronosGroup/OpenXR-Tutorials/releases/tag/v1.0.5) (`Chapter3.zip`) offered by OpenXR, which ran successfully. This means that the issue was on my side.

My first guess was that I was calling some other function in the wrong order. To verify this, I printed every OpenXR function called in my code and compared it with the example code. The result was that I called all the same functions in the same order.

I then started replacing parts of my code starting from the rendering all the way to event handling and session creation with code copied from the example. After having replaced most of my code, the error persisted.

While looking at the initialization code, I happened to notice that I had hard-coded the resolution of the framebuffers for the views, and that the hard-coded resolution did not match the reccomended resolution reported by SteamVR. Chaning the hard-coded resolution to the one reported by SteamVR resulted in the error going away and the rendering functioning correctly. At this moment, the resolution is still hard-coded. I do not intend to fix this right now.

In conclusion, while the mistake was on my part, I also think the error reported by the runtime is a bug in SteamVR, since the mistake did not involve function call order and happens in another part of the code and not where it was reported.
